THE RATE OF IMPROVING IS A KPI

https://www.linkedin.com/posts/ahmedbanafa_intel-ai-activity-7351116119392337921-RpKO

Mrunalini Jagtap

> It reiterates the quote by Jack Welch - “If the rate of change on the outside exceeds the rate of change on the inside, the end is near.”

Roberto A. Foglietta

> Mrunalini Jagtap cited Jack Welch, it happens also in nature when an organism is too slow to adapt to an environmental change, disappears and sometimes completely.

Mrunalini Jagtap

It all started way back from Darwin’s theory of survival- It is not the most intellectual of the species that survives; it is not the strongest that survives; but the species that survives is the one that is able best to adapt and adjust to the changing environment in which it finds itself.

Roberto A. Foglietta

About "It is not the most intellectual of the species that survives", speaking in terms of species is true. In a relatively small niche with two different similar species, like Neanderthal and Sapiens, the one that cannot prime their brain at the most, is doomed to disappear. Natural selections, instead, does not apply to individuals because is a theory inheterly based on the great numbers (statistics). Who uses it as a "moral" compass for individuals is wrong or in malafide (s/he wishes to find something that sustains what s/he wants to believe).

In case you would ask me why Neanderthals disappeared. Sapiens killed them? Possibly but in few numbers, marginally while much probably the opposite in terms of balance and for sure in terms of % at the beginning of the Sapiens raising.

The MAIN reason resides in the completely different way in which Neanderthal and Sapiens elaborate information and use it, in practice. While Sapiens learn by each other, thus they can generalise or presume a contextual learning, the Neanderthal were imitating.

In particular, when Neanderthal imitate the Sapiens, without understanding, they were more keen to die. The trap is always the same "we need to know everything" (curiosity) and when it is too late "we need to understand also" (learning). Too late means that no Neanderthal is around anymore.

The rate was speaking about the CEO of General Electrics. In more modern terms, the Neanderthal see a VUCA world while Sapiens see a Kindergarten polluted by too-slow-thinking individuals to stay alive. Change fast thinking (AI are an example of quick lessical thinking) with deep thinking, and you have the current scenario.

What a wonderful time to be alive!

***

BONUS

Sapiens #1: we have a problem, because we aren't able to educate Neandertal.

Sapiens #2: thus, their inability to learn is the solution, not the problem.

