Comment to this post, made on 16th Jul 2025.

https://www.linkedin.com/posts/dr-rehan-raina-44088a14_chernobyl-lethal-decades-activity-7350059538915467264-_ldX

[1/3]

Kelley Geary wrote: << heard about this from a Paul Stamets conference. After sharing this fascinating concept with others, they shared concerns regarding contaminated spores becoming a greater problem. Thoughts?>> -- for a moment, then I saw your profile and googled Paul Stamets. So, I am going to answer both your questions. Contamination by a 1. new organism and by 2. radionuclides. Last first.

The Fukushima disaster shows that diluting enough a radioactive compound, it became inoffensive even when discharged into the natural environment. Without concentration, radiation is not dangerous and radioactive natural background radiation is subject to a high degree of variation. In this approach three problems arise:

a) it is a form of pollution as much as the radionuclides are created new and continued to be left into environment, so it cannot be not a long-term sustainable dismission strategy;

b) despite being diluted, some organisms tend to concentrate it like sunflowers but some animals also like they do with mercury.

c) synthetic radionuclides are "artificial alien" for life on this planet, thus potentially can push the natural selection to a new frontier in an unexpected way, like plastic did.

[2/3]

Luckily, about a) we as humans do not produce, by now, a big enough radioactive mass that diluted over the entire world can change sensitively the radioactivity. It remains a way to no-go unless in case of disaster, like Fukushima, in fact. While c) mass is even smaller, and the thread is hypothetical. While b) is the REAL issue in dismission by dilution.

Finally, we get into the first question of yours. The explicit one. Which fits with above said: concentration in nature pushes natural selection and thus natural evolution toward a completely new frontier and something "new" appears.

I have seen this question before about the nature of the covid-19 virus. Whatever, that virus made the animal-human jump, in lab or in nature, its DNA grants us that it is not an alien form of life on this planet and the "novelty" is quite low in terms of DNA change. So, it is not a totally synthetic organism either.

[3/3]

It is a big (relatively to the virus DNA bases counting) virus that finally mutate (as bigger as slower to mutate) and we noticed it because its protein (the spike proteins) is peculiar and can trigger reactions in few of us (plus the symptoms of flu like that kind of virus are used to do to us).

This brings us to the dilemma that with drugs or by natural exposition some people (relatively few, luckily) will die anyway. Like providing a spoon of peanut butter to everyone, whatever they receive by nature or by drugs, few will face a crisis because their body did not learn (or lost the memory or the means) to cope with some compounds.

So, as long as we do not create a completely synthetic form of life (like a left DNA copy of a living organism or protein), we are relatively safe as we were in the last 4 billions of years since DNA-based life started to thrive against natural selection.

This concept of evolution by steps that avoid (statistically speaking) giant leaps is explained here, into my prompts to the AI, naturally.

https://robang74.github.io/chatgpt-answered-prompts/html/la-semplicita-delle-direttive-in-caso-di-crisi.html#:~:text=salute%20della%20popolazione.-,Prompt%20%2325,-Partiamo%20dal%20presupposto
